five compact cars with diesel engines
for our old acquaintances the Gulf the
focus the a3 and the Giulietta and a new
contender has joined the race the next
generation BMW 1-series
nobody compactus test-driver york Madson
says the compact class is the most
highly contested market segment in
Germany all five candidates have 140
horsepower and diesel engines the
newcomer is the BMW 118 d with 143
horsepower malson asked whether three
extra horsepower is enough to leave the
competition behind but the number one
and the BMW name says where it's pointed
that's ice
so the goal is clear now the race can
begin the audi a3 Sportback is the
senior in the field not flashy but with
lots of convincing arguments in its
favour fine workmanship ample cargo
space however the automatic air
conditioning costs 1425 euros extra and
there's no simpler variant the chassis
offers a ride with comfort and stability
although some critics feel there could
be more steering feedback
[Music]
a VOD York Madsen says the Audi a3 maybe
showing its age but his body still has
plenty to offer for the next generation
a3 in the works he says it's still a
major contender in the compact segment
absolutely the tip-in compact segment
now this car exudes Italian passion Alfa
Romeo Giulietta the design is close to
perfection but unfortunately the
workmanship isn't still the engine is
fun a dynamic setting gives a turbo over
boost to raise the torque by 30 Newton
meters the fun factor can only really be
enjoyed in the front though the back
seats are cramped and not recommended
for tall passengers avi I heard Monson
acknowledges that the Giulietta is a bit
of an outsider and although it's
technically state-of-the-art most people
buy the car for its design just look at
the front with the giant Scudetto grille
he says it's got a beautiful shape
something for form freaks freaks
the BMW 1-series has grown up it's eight
and a half centimeters longer than its
predecessor but the interior is still
less spacious than saved the Gulf the
BMW is the only rear-wheel drive car in
the quintet and with 105 kilowatts of
power the 118 D is 2 kilowatts ahead of
its rivals all models have a driving
mode switch the Eco Pro Mode ensures
efficient fuel consumption with
air-conditioning seat heating and engine
control reduced to a minimum which saves
0.3 liters of fuel per 100 kilometers
the stats put the BMW well in front but
at 34,000 400 euros this test car with
all its extras is the most expensive of
the 5 York Monsun says the BMW clearly
wants to be number one in accordance
with its name it's bigger packed with
more technology and it's more efficient
and better overall of course every car
maker claims that says Monson he warns
the Gulf and others are tough
competitors in unfed McCoy and Cole
hadn't actually zoomed by heartache on
Corvettes we've checked out the Audi a3
the Giulietta and the BMW 1-series now
we look at two more to complete the
quintet the Ford Focus plays it safe
it's modern but not flamboyant the
cockpit can be a bit confusing the
handbrake and gearshift positions take
some getting used to
Road performance is solid but although
it's been out for a year the focus
doesn't offer auto start/stop or
adjustable suspension as an extra that
means
points off in terms of driving comfort
but it gets thumbs up for the nearly 600
kilogram load capacity that makes the
focus a real workhorse
deaf wat folk yachtsman seized the Ford
Focus as a mainstay of the compact
sector solid technology pack in a sporty
body had a fair price
that's his verdict on the focus coming
up - on his dog
then there's the VW Golf often
challenged but always setting new
standards in the compact class in fact
it could be said to define the compact
class it performs superbly in all areas
offering the most spacious interior
combined with high driving comfort the
Gulf is the great all-rounder and takes
a convincing lead in technical areas and
in all the categories that buyers are
looking for
[Music]
yes Tita so here we have the VW golf
since your months the sixth edition
Germany's best-selling car and why for
him it's the solid construction the
incredible attention to detail that he
doesn't see the golf being dethroned
anytime soon five small family cars with
diesel engines face up and if solid
facts are going to decide the race there
can only be one winner give one a test
driver your Nelson it's the VW Golf the
defending champion that has the best
characteristics but he was surprised how
close the BMW 118 he came with its 143
horsepower Olson says his rear wheel
drive makes it fun to drive but the
cramped back seats put it behind the
goal the awards third place to the Ford
Focus which he says offers lots of car
for the money than the a3 a bit long in
the tooth but still going strong and in
last place the Giulietta with technical
flaws but great for style fans and super
tip for styling pets so once again the
Gulf has defended its lead the BMW
1-series comes in second but it's
definitely snapping at the VW's bumper